# MSFR Stata Lab 1: Statistical Programming and Reproducibility

Critical tasks are done using statistical software so that we can easily review and revise processes. Unlike in Excel, where reverse-engineering data work is impossible, Stata lets us write "recipes" for outputs that others can easily understand, review, and update. Make sure you have downloaded the contents of this repository so that you have access to the appropriate folders for the upcoming assignments on your local machine. Locate the `main.do` file and `README.md` for the course in the top-level directory.

You will edit the `lab-1.do` file to complete a few basic tasks and become comfortable editing and running do-files in Stata using `global` settings and `main` do-files. In this session, we will use the `lab-1.do` file to carry out a few simple tasks using the first data set that you will be working with. This data set comes from an agricultural survey, conducted among various households, that records information about the types and amounts of crops grown and the income derived from those crops.

You will find that the `lab-1.do` file is mainly empty. Using good structure, syntax, and style, edit the do-file to accomplish the following tasks, and run it by running the `main.do` file in the `/Stata/` folder. Locate the file path for the LWH data. Using the `global` that is defined in the `main.do` file, write a command to `use` the data set. Does the data set load? Can you `count` the observations? Can you `summarize` the variables? Use `tab` and `list` to see what some variables look like. Use `help` to investigate the options available to you in these commands.

Next, open the questionnaire Excel file that describes the data set. Familiarize yourself with the documentation to determine some characteristics it should have. Are there variables that, for example, have out-of-bounds values that indicate things like non-response ("-88", "-66")? Investigate these variables with `codebook`, `labelbook`, and `browse`. Use `recode` to replace each of these types of survey codes with extended missing values such as `.a`. Use the `label` command to indicate what those values mean.

Now, the data in memory should not have any variables with survey codes such as "-66" or "-88". Write a `foreach` loop using `assert` that will check for this. You may need to use a command like `ds` and investigate what information it puts in `return` to identify all the relevant variables. When you are finished checking that all extended missing values have been correctly coded, `save` the data in this folder.
