# MSFR Stata Lab 3: Data Management and Documentation

Raw data sets are generally not ready for direct analysis. They must have incorrect observations fixed and duplicates removed. Data from different sources needs to be harmonized and appended. Finally, data should be saved with appropriate documentation and metadata. In this lab, you will encounter data that is in a more raw form than the data you previously tidied. You will also clean and label that data. Most of this will occur outside of Stata, so your do-file for Lab 3 will probably be relatively short: this is the motivating idea behind many of the software tools DIME Analytics provides.

To start, use `iecodebook` to create cleaning templates for each of the three data sets you tidied in the previous round. some of the code is written already for you, but you may need to modify it. Once you have created the templates, fill them out so that they label all the variables in each data set completely and correctly, including value labels where appropriate.

Next, you will add another round of survey data from the same study. Put the followup (FUP) data into the `/Stata/raw/` folder. Then, load and tidy it as necessary. Finally, use `iecodebook` syntax to create another round of household-level data, appending them with the previous data. Make sure that all variables and value labels are aligned using the command so that the data "stacks" naturally. Use `append` to create a "round" variable in both of these data sets indicating whether they are from "Round1" or from "Round2". Use `iecodebook export` to save and document these data sets.

Once you have done this, use Office tools to create the complete data map for the data sets you have managed. Make sure to include the data linking diagram as well as the other components, so that a new team member can trace all the work you have done from Lab 1 up to this point. Similarly, add comments to the `main.do` file and to your other do-files so that a new user can understand how these scripts implement the data handling described in your data map.
